Where did that recipe come from? When did it
originate? And how many of those rolls were made a
week or a day? Well, I'd like to take credit for
that, but I can't. That roll was being produced
when I came here. And it's a fully approved roll, as
you know. It won't keep very well due to that
because it's a fluffy, soft roll. But that was used
only at the Memorial Student Center. We used a
little different role for the remainder of the
campus. But that's a famous role even today. So it
started with the MSC, maybe? Perhaps it did. I do
not know. I wish I'd asked at the time who
originated that role, and someday I may find out.
If I do, I'll come back and tell you. When my wife and
I moved to El Paso, somebody gave us a recipe. Well,
I sent you a recipe, but it seems like it's
difficult to duplicate. It was. In another area
for some reason. It's like trying to eat lobster
here or pinto beans in Maine. They just aren't the
same. That's right. What were other favorite
dishes or specialties down through the years?
Well, one of the main ones that I recall was the
Aggie fritter. And the Aggie fritter was nothing
more. It was served often at breakfast and was a
favorite item. It was two pieces of bread that was
stuck together with apricot jam and refrigerated
overnight. This toast then, these two slices of
bread were cut diagonally, dipped in a batter
similar to a hot cake batter, deep fat fried, and
then sprinkled with sugar as they came out of the
hot fat. That was one of the most popular items. I
gave that to Luby's once when I started their
breakfast. And it was so popular here, this
manager said, well, I wish the managers didn't
want to call it Aggie Roll in the other parts of the
country. I told them to use it. They had to call it
that because that's what it is. So that was about
the old items. Some of the strange items and
unusual things we had here because A&M had been
here so long. and had purchased so much compared to
other universities. One of the items you'd run
into some strange thing. I noticed the item on our
bid list, it said A&M Hounds, A&M Hounds. An A&M
Hound is not ham at all. An A&M Hound was a baby beef
leg set with a leg in the round. And that became
known as an A&M ham set. So those are just some of the
things that... Who were... Describe for me the
purchasing process, the procurement process for
all of the food service supplies. Well, we had
competitive bids when I came in. But that had been
one of my specialties in the military, so we
expanded that some and began to develop some
specifications we didn't have. And we began to buy
as much as we could store with intensive
competitive bidding. And we would do this in the
production seasons, packing seasons, as much as
we could. And then if we heard of distressed
merchandise, that is overproduction of ketchup
or peaches or whatever it was, we would take more
bids. And each year, one of the things we started
was to get samples in from all these companies that
bid. We'd have a counter maybe 100 feet long or more
of different foods. And we'd start comparing, and
we would weigh every item that we were going to
purchase that was weighable to determine the
lowest cost per ounce of the product inside
without juice or additives or anything. And so we
were very successful in getting some very
inexpensive items. I had one occasion to compare
that with one of the main chain cafeteria
operators who believed he could buy off from as he
needed as cheap as we could. So we compared figures
one day, and we were paying about an average of 30%
less than he was. He said, I give up. And he was a very
wealthy, successful operator. And then that's
one of the reasons we built. One of the last things
that I had anything to do with was our food service
commissary on the west side of campus. And the
nearest we could figure, the first year we We built
that because we had supplies scattered all over
campus. We estimated that we saved approximately
one half million dollars that year. Now you stored
in it canned and frozen? Canned and frozen, yes. A
year's supply of cans primarily and of course the
frozen would vary anywhere from 30, 60 to 90 days.
because we've tried to get as large of lots as we
could. And it has been successful to the best of my
knowledge and belief. I was there about two or
three years before I retired. Did you ever buy
bulk, dry vegetables, beans, corn, anything like
that? Not, not, not, not, we bought dry ones. Yes,
we bought like, you know, pintos and black-eyed
peas. Yes, we'd do that stuff. One time I happened
to be walking through and there was a little bit of
bidding. and I think it was bacon, and I think they
were tenths of cents, 21 point something
something cents per pound. It's fractions of a
hundredth of a cent. Is that right? Yeah. Is that
right? Yeah. Can you give me, give us some examples
of the quantity per year you might have bought of
anything? Well, we'd buy 40 to 60,000 pounds of
canned corn. Per year? Per year. 40 to 60,000
pounds of green beans. Nearly everything was
based on a body. And we, as I recall, we were using
about a carload lot, which is up to 60,000 pounds of
many of our basic items. And sometimes it would be a
carload, but we would vary the amount of the car
that would come in. Because that saved,
obviously, money on packing and shipping and
such. That was one of the things that we took
advantage of in the carload lots. And those
materials would arrive by railroad or by truck?
When I speak of carloads, I'm talking of rail. And
we had a lot of rail shipments, more than I think
they have now. But then later on, it began to
develop a lot of wood come by truck. Sometimes it's
in a couple of trucks. Sometimes it'd be a
truckload. Normally, we could buy for less money
with the rail car. But that changes a little over
periods of time. Where else in this part of the
country was there another operation of this
magnitude other than in the military? Well, Texas
Tech had a similar operation. Not as big. We
were... about, we were one of the largest in
America for institutional feet in one location.
Texas Tech was big. The next one of any size would
have been Michigan State, Ohio State, University
of Illinois. But beyond that, they were small by
comparison. So we couldn't We couldn't work much
with them, with others, except for those, to
compare notes of things we did. And we did that as
much as possible. We had an organization, which
was National Association of College and
University Food Services. And I told some of them
one day, I said, we have to stay close together
because our food, us food service people are
always on the bottom of the totem pole. To which
they agreed. Now, and so food service here was
entirely self-supporting. Entirely. And that
not only meant daily operations, but additions,
renovations, improvements, and so forth. Yes,
that's right. Take me through, in the nine-month
term school year, take me through a typical week of
your schedule. Well, it's almost a blur because
one of the jokes I used to, an ironical joke I guess
you'd call it, I had a heart attack on one occasion,
I'd been working about 16 hours a day, and Dr. O.C.
Cooper says, you've got to take a half a day off. So I
told everybody, which is true really, I cut it from
16 to 12 to 13, because I could never feel that I
accomplished a job on the list. Now maybe if I'd
been more intelligent I could have, but I
couldn't. We'd start out early in the morning. I'd
get up early in the morning, every morning. I got up
early in the morning. If we were building
something, like a renovation or a new building, I
might wake up at 3 o'clock. If I did, I'd get up and
come to work. But, ordinarily, I'd come in about 7
o'clock, sometimes 6.30, and try to visit two or
three places because my routine was to try to visit
every place at least once a day. And sometimes you
can't do that, but this was the schedule anyway.
And there's always a bunch of paperwork for
something when you have, as you know, a big number
of employees. So you get into that a little bit, and
once you get a little bit drowsy or tired of that,
Then you've got to go out and see who's missing
where. And not because you have to do it
personally, because it's good to, by that time the
managers would be in gear, and I would simply want
to ask them how they were doing, and how things were
coming along, and if I could be of any help to them.
Then we'd come along for lunchtime, and I'd want to
see some of the guests at different places. If it
was students, or if it was people, I'd want to
circulate among them and see if everything was all
right. And then in the afternoon, we'd get back to
the paperwork again. And there's always plenty of
paperwork. And sometimes there'd be a question.
Not very often they'd come in from Howard or Mr.
Cherry. But that wasn't any problem, really,
because they were trying to support. They were not
trying to interfere with anything. And then by the
time the evening meal came along, it was time to
take another look at your customers and the menu,
to check the menus. We did this each time to see if
the menu that we prescribed ahead of time was being
followed. And if so, what quality was. So I tasted a
lot of items that, you know, that really got to be a
chore because you'd taste items so much you'd
interfere with your meal. I've tasted enough
items so that some days I wouldn't eat at all or eat
on the run and never sat down to eat a meal. Just keep
tasting maybe something that went wrong. Then in
the evening, if we had a banquet, particularly, or
a formal affair, and we had these, really, in
Sebiza and in Duncan and in the Memorial Student
Center, I would want to see what was happening,
even though we had competent managers, just to be
there, because I found it was very important just
to be available so that questions came up, they
could get an answer immediately. I didn't have to
wait and wonder where I was. If anybody was unhappy
about anything, that is a customer, I could say,
well, I was there. And I didn't know it, or I did know
it, and I did this and so. So that's the reason the
hours were quite long. So you'd get here By 7. About
7 o'clock. And you'd leave? Anywhere from, really
anywhere from 7 to 10 or 10 o'clock. All right,
let's make it then a football Saturday. What was
Saturday like? That was a long, that was extra long
because I used to tell people anytime we had a
football game, A big day before, everybody was
woozy the next day, which was pretty well true
because everybody did everything they could
possibly do to be sure it was done right. And you'd
have to shift people and equipment. We would have a
meeting each Friday. I started a meeting each of
our managers each Friday so that if we had a banquet
one place, we'd have to shift equipment over to
another and shift personnel as well. And we had to
do this methodically and pretty accurately in
order to survive. And I'm sure they're doing that
today. What were the most popular dishes, be they
desserts or main courses or what, that you recall?
We mentioned the rolls, but... Well, the rolls are
good. Always a steak was popular. We started out,
when I came here, serving a 12-ounce steak, and at
14, that would be ridiculous now, down to 6 and 8
ounces. But the steak was always very popular.
Lobster Troubadour, very popular. Lobster
Newberg. And the shrimp fries we had were real
popular items, whereas the pluck them off like
peanuts, the big, big shrimp. And Mr. Howard liked
those particularly well. And of course the big
rounds of roast beef were always a popular item.
Now they're more popular then than they are now
because people eat lighter today. And then we had a
lot of desserts that were more popular. Things
like certainly the chocolate pies and pecan pies
and the coconuts that people liked the recipes a
little better, and they were quite popular as
well. And then we had, I remember, always for the
football games for a long period there, we would
serve and call it Aggie cake, which is a maroon
colored red velvet cake. And we'd have that lined
up with the white icing on it. That'd always been
popular because People bought it because it was
maroon. Maroon and white. Did President and Mrs.
Rutter have any favorites, particularly? Well,
President Rutter's favorite was just food. He
liked all food. I recall one occasion when I'd
serve teriyaki. I brought this recipe from the
east. He thought that was great, and we were having
it. President's Buffet, and he was sitting in the
back, and I think that day he was eating with
Governor Smith or somebody. But he got up from his
table, and I was at one end of the room, and he was the
other, and he said, Hey, Dollar, what is this?
I hollered back and told him. Were there any that
either of the rudders didn't like? that you knew to
leave them? No, not really. No, they had no
hang-ups. They seemed to be prone to roast beef a
lot. Ms. Runner liked to always have that on hand.
But they were really easy to, very particular, but
still easy to satisfy. All right, let's go then to
the Williams. Did they have any special
enjoyments? Well, yes, they... They were a little
more particular and wanted certain things and
didn't go for the heavy food as much. And of course
then the Vandiver's were not too much on the heavy
food. Then Dr. Miller, when Dr. Miller was here, he
was back to the type of President Rudder. He liked
to eat and eat well and have it in the old fashioned,
old fashioned manner. So of course we tried to
please everybody. All right, now this next
question has pluses and minuses. Sure. You must
remember some notable successes, and there must
have been at least one or two incidents when
something didn't work out the way you'd planned
it. Yeah, well, I think the most embarrassing
thing that ever happened to me, fortunately there
wasn't a lot of them. I always envisioned the fact
that if we forgot a banquet scheduled or
something. We never did. But that always was a
harassment in the back of my mind. But on one
occasion, we had the knife and fork club up there.
And the chicken cordon bleu had just come out, so
they decided that was the menu. And so we said,
okay. And it had always been turned out, and it
always turned out very pretty, and we knew just how
to do it. We had a chef had been doing it for years. Lo
and behold, that product, looked well on the
plate, but it wasn't cooked. That was the most
embarrassing thing that ever happened to me. So
this was raw chicken? Well, it was partially raw at
any rate. But, you know, none of it did not seem to
bother any of them very much. But the irony, the
peculiar part about this is It seemed like always
the things I thought were going to give me the most
trouble didn't. It was always the unexpected that
gave me the great problems. Of course, I guess
that's true everywhere, but it had never been true
on the other jobs I'd had as much as this one. Among
the groups, what's about some of the largest meals
that you remember having to prepare for? Oh, I
believe
maybe 1,500 at a time, which is not too many. That
would have been in Duncan? In Duncan, and
sometimes in Sabeza we'd have that many. uh as a but
not seated at one one time now actually sabiza will
seat where would it then uh maximum seating 4200
whole target that seated doesn't really uh that's
a wall-to-wall family style and duncan would seat
3 800. he fed that many during the second world war
when the navy and marines were here training I
talked to him once. I used to have him out as often as
I could before he passed away. Let's go back and
capture him. Describe him physically and his
manner and style of leadership. Well, he was tall,
very well-dressed, well-mannered individual,
well-educated man. And he was fairly formal in his
conduct. with everybody and and really easy to
interpret misinterpret because he was had a
little bit of a harsh side but he had really a heart
of gold he's one of those people that wanted things
exactly right but he would anybody's trying he
would support them to the last but if unless it was
it unless they were violating his opinion and that
would infuriate him greatly And there's some
instances that some of his other people related to
him, and I could see that as we went along. But if he
thought he could do something for you, he would do
that. But he gave very clear instructions, and he
did not give real close supervision. As a matter of
fact, he had the reputation of getting bored with
the job after he'd been around too long for a while.
But he knew... How to operate. As you may know, he
was hired out of here by White's Cafeterias at a
then tremendous salary, $25,000 a year, which is
about the same as the governor of the state made,
and higher than anybody else made anywhere. So we
were just amazed at his reputation. He had a
tremendous reputation. Now, he was here about how
long? I don't know how many years he was here. He
came from New Orleans, I believe. I was going to say
you and he and Bernard Sabisa together. For a long
time. Bernard Sabisa was a good director 50 years.
I was going to say the three of you, about
three-fourths, two-thirds, three-fourths of
the existence. Of the whole time. Because Mr.
Holtard was here 15 years or something? I think so,
but I'm not too certain about that. uh i was a
seventh director by the way we had general b he was
the first then sabiza then mr duncan and mr hotard
and then frank nuget i believe and then me who'd i
leave out of there somebody i think at least
there's someone we had to i'll redo that b sabiza
duncan hotard penniston penniston and news news
jay penniston was hotard brother-in-law Oh, I
didn't know. He had run the meat market. Okay. We
had a central butcher shop, by the way. You
mentioned we didn't cook it there. By the way, what
they do now, and before I left here, we started
cooking a lot centrally, the meat roast and the
hamburgers. As a matter of fact, we have a great
ground meat operation there. We use chucks
primarily. I think they still do. And, uh, under
real sanitary conditions. And it's packaged and
been sent out to the, uh, dormitory, uh, to the mess
hall. During your, your days, did we ever have any
breakdown of quality control and people get sick?
And did we ever have an outbreak of anything? We
didn't have any big outbreaks, but we, we had a, we
had a few where, where, uh, But nothing was ever
identified as having caused it. And what I did,
when we suspected something, I'd get the food
sanitarium here on campus to look at it and arrange
for any tests that needed to be done. So we
precluded most of that. Actually, there's seldom
really any chance for that if your sanitation is
good enough. Now, I know there's always a chance
for anything, but we were very blessed to not have
any serious things developed. Let's make believe
there's going to be a big dinner on Saturday. The
president's going to host it. We've got a number of
dignitaries coming. who would select the menu and
how far in advance would you need to start planning
it? Well, of course, we would coordinate with the,
or vice versa, with the president's secretary or
assistant to work out the basic menu. If it's a
buffet, we had free reign. But if it's a seated
affair, it would be different. So that would
usually happen and should happen maybe a week or
two in advance, just traditionally. Not
necessarily so. We could do that within 48 hours
easy enough. But was it routine only a week in
advance for you and your staff to sit down? About
that. That was sort of routine, not essential. But
we would have an idea about the number, and we would
keep talking almost daily with whoever we worked
with in the president's office. about the numbers
or any peculiarities or menu preferences such as
could they eat meats or did they want fish instead
of steak or vegetables instead of regular meal.
And so if you worked closely enough and worked on it
enough, things always went well but it was always a
matter of intense effort and I we always did that to
my knowledge to try to get them right now and that
doesn't mean they were all they weren't perfect
but they were they were acceptable you might say
all right so you would with uh when NELDA Rowell,
now Nelda Green, was the secretary. You would work
primarily with her? Normally with Ed Cooper. With
Ed Cooper, okay. All right, now let's make believe
that you have some new idea, some new dish that has
never been tried before. were the presidents
susceptible to those, to trying them? Well, I
wouldn't want to do that on a big affair. Oh, okay. I
wouldn't mind serving him personally. Oh, okay.
On one occasion, I came up with a concoction for the
Board of Regents a few years ago over here, and I
called it Egg's Regency. It was an egg, nothing
more than one had been... scrambled and shaped
with a sauce of breakfast on them. So Mr.
Weizenbaker came in and who was a difficult with
some people, but Mr. Burkhardt said, how would you
like to try our egg Regency? He said, oh yeah, I'll
try that. But he said, leave that old sauce off.
Well, that was the whole thing.
As the board members would come in that morning,
Mr. Burkhart kept laughing about it. Mr. Burkhart
would say, don't treat that egg green, see. But,
you see, most of the people, as you know, you've
been at that level. When you reach that level, it's
just like the generals in the Army. The easiest
people to talk with and to get along with, as long as
you're trying, are the people on top. Mm-hmm. And,
of course, if you do something to negligence,
that's a different story. But that's the thing
that always bothered me, that we would foul up. And
I guess that's maybe the reason the Lord blessed me
when I didn't. All right. Let's go back now to you
reported Howard Vestal. and Mr. Cherry, give me an
example of Mr. Cherry's decision-making style,
some important decision that he made that
affected you and food service. Well, there were a
lot of them. I made notes on everything but that.
But he would make the decisions, I'd say almost the
final decision, except Mr. and Mr. Rudder, if it
was big enough, would get in on it. on anything we
were to build, for example.
If we had a new building of some type, that would be
of concern to him in the sense that he wouldn't know
why we were doing it and where we were going to put it
and what it would cost and if we had the money and
that sort of thing. And if it sounded good to him,
He's like Howard Bestel said once, and I'll
interrupt this to say this. He said, let's don't
take Mr. Cherry, the small problems, let's take
him the big ones. Because he had a method of
handling the biggest problems, the easiest of any
man I have ever seen. I have never seen a man that was
as calm and deliberate and seems to be as active as
he was on nearly everything.